### 15. 3sum - Medium

Given an integer array nums, return all the triplets `[nums[i], nums[j], nums[k]]` such that `i != j`, `i != k`, and `j != k`, and `nums[i] + nums[j] + nums[k] == 0`.

Notice that the solution set must not contain duplicate triplets.

 

**Example 1:**

```
Input: nums = [-1,0,1,2,-1,-4]
Output: [[-1,-1,2],[-1,0,1]]
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: nums = []
Output: []
```

**Example 3:**

```
Input: nums = [0]
Output: []
```

 

**Constraints:**

- `0 <= nums.length <= 3000`
- `-105 <= nums[i] <= 105`

##### My Solution:
```python
class Solution:
    def threeSum(self, nums: List[int]) -> List[List[int]]:
        if len(nums) <= 2:
            return []
        nums.sort()
        l,r = 0, len(nums) -1
        n = l+1
        
        result = []
        for n in range(len(nums)):
            l,r = n+1, len(nums) - 1 

            while l < r:
                if nums[r] < 0:
                    return result
                if nums[l] + nums[n] + nums[r] == 0:
                    res = [nums[n],nums[l],nums[r]]

                    # prevent duplicates
                    if res not in result:
                        result.append(res)
                    l += 1
                elif nums[l] + nums[n] + nums[r] > 0:
                    r -= 1
                else:
                    l += 1
            
        return result            
     
```

Runtime: 6708 ms, faster than 5.50% of Python3 online submissions for 3Sum.

Memory Usage: 17.3 MB, less than 86.83% of Python3 online submissions for 3Sum.

##### Note:

1. At first I did it in the hash table way, but it turns out to be a O(N^2) and never successfully run in LeetCode for that tramendously large  test case.
2. So I went ahead tried the two pointers method. If both of the pointers move on the same direction, it would make the problem easier. The idea is to fix a number, and move along the array after this number to with two pointers to make a total of 0 , and keep iterating until the end of the array. The key is so sort the array first, and let pointers moviing from different direction, that way we can easily understand how to update the pointers - if the sum is greater than 0, means the largest num to the end of the array is too big for a sum of 0, and should move to a smaller number; and vise versa. 
3. For the dedup process I at first tried with `itertools.groupby()`, it worked locally but for some reason it didn't show the correct output in LeetCode, so I change my way to check if the resulting triplet from each round is in the result array, if not in, then append it on. 

